Giving details about disability (iteration) (#60)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2020-02-11-training-with-a-disability-iteration.md

---
title: Giving details about disability (iteration)
description:
date: 2020-02-11
---
This design is [an iteration of the question as designed for the pilot](/apply-for-teacher-training/training-with-a-disability). This question was removed prior to launch due to a lack of confidence in how we were asking a sensitive and possibly contentious question.

## User needs

As a candidate

> : I need to inform a provider of a disability, health issue or access need I have,

Reviewer: @fofr and I have been avoid this syntax. Suggest just losing the `:` but still having separate lines.

Author: Any reason why? Semantics?

: so that reasonable adjustments can be made should I be offered an interview and/or begin training with them.

As a candidate

> : I need reassurance that disclosing a disability won’t affect my application, either due to unconscious bias or discrimination,

Reviewer: Same

: so that I can feel comfortable disclosing this information.

As a provider

> : I need to know if a candidate needs extra support,

Reviewer: Same

: so that I can make any reasonable adjustments.

## Hypotheses

### Using ‘extra assistance’ in the title

> Using the word disability in the title excluded candidates that have (short-term) physical or mental health conditions, or a condition they don’t regard as a disability.

Reviewer: Why is “short term” in brackets?

Reviewer 2: I think we can lose the brackets.

Reviewer 2: Tiny thing, but to be consistent about inverted commas, we should have: "Using the word 'disability' in the title..." as per the sub-heading.

> If we don’t explicitly use the word disability, but instead use the term ‘extra assistance’, then candidates with access needs will feel more compelled to provide details of their condition(s). We’ll know this works when more candidates provide relevant details of their particular needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we use say ‘extra assistance’ instead of mentioning ‘disability’
Then candidates with access needs will be more compelled to enter their condition(s)
We’ll know this works when:
- more candidates provide relevant details of their particular needs
```

> ### Guidance: Using a more supportive and reassuring guidance tone (option one)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using a more supportive and reassuring guidance tone (option one)
```

The original design used content largely adapted from that used on the Get into Teaching website.

> If we use more supportive and reassuring guidance, that includes examples of the type of support a provider can offer, then a candidate will feel more comfortable providing an answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we use more supportive and reassuring guidance, that includes examples of the type of support a provider can offer
Then a candidate will feel more comfortable providing an answer
```

> ### Guidance: Reaffirming legal rights and protections against discimination (option two)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reaffirming legal rights and protections against discrimination (option two)
```

The original design used content largely adapted from that used on the Get into Teaching website.

> If our guidance states that it is against the law for a provider to discriminate against candidates with access needs, then a candidate will feel more comfortable providing an answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the guidance states that it's against the law for a provider to discriminate against candidates with access needs
Then a candidate will feel more comfortable providing an answer
```
